Documentation/Doxygen/src/mainpage.md, before:

# Overview {#mainpage}

## Introduction

This user manual describes the CMSIS DSP software library, a suite of common compute processing functions for use on Cortex-M and Cortex-A processor based devices.

The library is divided into a number of functions each covering a specific category:

 - \ref groupMath "Basic math functions"
 - \ref groupFastMath "Fast math functions"
 - \ref groupCmplxMath "Complex math functions"
 - \ref groupFilters "Filtering functions"
 - \ref groupMatrix "Matrix functions"
 - \ref groupTransforms "Transform functions"
 - \ref groupController "Motor control functions"
 - \ref groupStats "Statistical functions"
 - \ref groupSupport "Support functions"
 - \ref groupInterpolation "Interpolation functions"
 - \ref groupSVM "Support Vector Machine functions (SVM)"
 - \ref groupBayes "Bayes classifier functions"
 - \ref groupDistance "Distance functions"
 - \ref groupQuaternionMath "Quaternion functions"
 - \ref groupWindow "Window functions"

The library has generally separate functions for operating on 8-bit integers, 16-bit integers, 32-bit integer and 32-bit floating-point values and 64-bit floating-point values.

The library is providing vectorized versions of most algorithms for Helium and of most f32 algorithms for Neon.

When using a vectorized version, provide a little bit of padding after the end of a buffer (3 words) because the vectorized code may read a little bit after the end of a buffer. You don't have to modify your buffers but just ensure that the end of buffer + padding is not outside of a memory region.

## Related projects

### Python wrapper

A Python wrapper is also available with a Python API as close as possible to the C one. It can be used to start developing and testing an algorithm with NumPy and SciPy before writing the C version. Is is available on [PyPI.org](https://pypi.org/project/cmsisdsp/). It can be installed with: `pip install cmsisdsp`.

### Experimental C++ template extension

This extension is a set of C++ headers. They just need to included to start using the features.

Those headers are not yet part of the pack and you need to get them from the [github repository](https://github.com/ARM-software/CMSIS-DSP/tree/main/dsppp/Include)

More documentation about the @ref dsppp_main "DSP++" extension.

## Using the CMSIS-DSP Library {#using}

The library is released in source form. It is strongly advised to compile the library using `-Ofast` optimization to have the best performances.

Following options should be avoided:

* `-fno-builtin`
* `-ffreestanding` because it enables previous options

The library is doing some type [punning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Type_punning) to process word 32 from memory as a pair of `q15` or a quadruple of `q7`.  Those type manipulations are done through `memcpy` functions. Most compilers should be able to optimize out those function calls when the length to copy is small (4 bytes).

This optimization will **not** occur when `-fno-builtin` is used and it will have a **very bad** impact on the performances.


The library functions are declared in the public file `Include/arm_math.h`. Simply include this file to use the CMSIS-DSP library. If you don't want to include everything, you can also rely on individual header files from the `Include/dsp/` folder and include only those that are needed in the project.

## Examples {#example}

The library ships with a number of examples which demonstrate how to use the library functions. Please refer to \ref groupExamples.

## Toolchain Support {#toolchain}

The library is now tested on Fast Models building with cmake. Core M0, M4, M7, M33, M55 are tested.

## Access to CMSIS-DSP {#pack}

CMSIS-DSP is actively maintained in the [**CMSIS-DSP GitHub repository**](https://github.com/ARM-software/CMSIS-DSP) and is released as a standalone [**CMSIS-DSP pack**](https://www.keil.arm.com/packs/cmsis-dsp-arm/versions/) in the [CMSIS-Pack format](https://open-cmsis-pack.github.io/Open-CMSIS-Pack-Spec/main/html/index.html).

The table below explains the content of **ARM::CMSIS-DSP** pack.

 Directory                             | Description
:--------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------
 📂 ComputeLibrary                     | Small Neon kernels when building on Cortex-A
 📂 Documentation                      | Folder with this CMSIS-DSP documentation
 📂 Example                            | Example projects demonstrating the usage of the library functions
 📂 Include                            | Include files for using and building the lib
 📂 PrivateInclude                     | Private include files for building the lib
 📂 Source                             | Source files
 📄 ARM.CMSIS-DSP.pdsc                 | CMSIS-Pack description file
 📄 LICENSE                            | License Agreement (Apache 2.0)

See [CMSIS Documentation](https://arm-software.github.io/CMSIS_6/) for an overview of CMSIS software components, tools and specifications.


## Preprocessor Macros {#preprocessor}

Each library project has different preprocessor macros.

 - `ARM_MATH_BIG_ENDIAN`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_BIG_ENDIAN to build the library for big endian targets. By default library builds for little endian targets.

 - `ARM_MATH_MATRIX_CHECK`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_MATRIX_CHECK for checking on the input and output sizes of matrices

 - `ARM_MATH_ROUNDING`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_ROUNDING for rounding on support functions

 - `ARM_MATH_LOOPUNROLL`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_LOOPUNROLL to enable manual loop unrolling in DSP functions

 - `ARM_MATH_NEON`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_NEON to enable Neon versions of the DSP functions. It is not enabled by default when Neon is available because performances are dependent on the compiler and target architecture.

 - `ARM_MATH_NEON_EXPERIMENTAL`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_NEON_EXPERIMENTAL to enable experimental Neon versions of of some DSP functions. Experimental Neon versions currently do not have better performances than the scalar versions.

 - `ARM_MATH_HELIUM`:
   - It implies the flags ARM_MATH_MVEF and ARM_MATH_MVEI and ARM_MATH_MVE_FLOAT16.

 - `ARM_MATH_HELIUM_EXPERIMENTAL`:
   - Only taken into account when ARM_MATH_MVEF, ARM_MATH_MVEI or ARM_MATH_MVE_FLOAT16 are defined. Enable some vector versions which may have worse performance than scalar depending on the core / compiler configuration.

 - `ARM_MATH_MVEF`:
   - Select Helium versions of the f32 algorithms. It implies ARM_MATH_FLOAT16 and ARM_MATH_MVEI.

 - `ARM_MATH_MVEI`:
   - Select Helium versions of the int and fixed point algorithms.

 - `ARM_MATH_MVE_FLOAT16`:
   - MVE Float16 implementations of some algorithms (Requires MVE extension).

 - `DISABLEFLOAT16`:
   - Disable float16 algorithms when __fp16 is not supported for a specific compiler / core configuration. This is only valid for scalar. When vector architecture is supporting f16 then it can't be disabled.

 - `ARM_MATH_AUTOVECTORIZE`:
   - With Helium or Neon, disable the use of vectorized code with C intrinsics and use pure C instead. The vectorization is then done by the compiler.

 - `ARM_DSP_ATTRIBUTE`: Can be set to define CMSIS-DSP function as weak functions. This can either be set on the command line when building or in a new `arm_dsp_config.h` header (see below)

 - `ARM_DSP_TABLE_ATTRIBUTE`: Can be set to define in which section constant tables must be mapped. This can either be set on the command line when building or in a new `arm_dsp_config.h` header (see below). Another way to set those sections is by modifying the linker scripts since the constant tables are defined only in a restricted set of source files. 

 - `ARM_DSP_CUSTOM_CONFIG` When set, the file `arm_dsp_config.h` is included by the `arm_math_types.h` headers. You can use this file to define any of the above compilation symbols.

## Code size

Previous versions were using lots of compilation flags to control code size. It was enabled with `ARM_DSP_CONFIG_TABLES`. It was getting too complex and has been removed. Now code size optimizations are relying on the linker.

You no more need to use any compilation flags like `ARM_TABLE_TWIDDLECOEF_F32_2048`, `ARM_FFT_ALLOW_TABLES` etc ...

They have been removed.

Constant tables can use a lot of read only memory but the linker can remove the unused functions and constant tables if it can deduce that those tables or functions are not used.

For this you need to use the right initialization functions in the library and the right options for the linker (they are compiler dependent).

For all transforms functions (CFFT, RFFT ...) instead of using a generic initialization function that works for all lengths (like `arm_cfft_init_f32`), use a dedicated initialization function for a specific size (like `arm_cfft_init_1024_f32`).

By using the right initialization function, you're telling the linker what is really used.

If you use a generic function, the linker cannot deduce the used lengths and thus will keep all the constant tables required for each length.

Then you need to use the right options for the compiler so that the unused tables and functions are removed. It is compiler dependent but generally the options are named like `-ffunction-sections`, `-fdata-sections`, `--gc-sections` ...

## Variations between the architectures

Some algorithms may give slightlty different results on different architectures (like M0 or M4/M7 or M55). It is a tradeoff made for speed reasons and to make best use of the different instruction sets.

All algorithms are compared with a double precision reference and the different versions (for different architectures) have the same characteristics when compared to the double precision (SNR bound, max bound for sample error ...) 

As consequence, the small differences that may exists between the different architecture implementations should be too small to have any practical consequences.

Also, when targeting Helium or Neon, some functions have  different APIs.

### Different API for Helium
* Biquad F32 and F16 : A different init function must be used
* FIR F32, F16, Q31, Q15 and Q7 : Coefficient array must be padded with zeros

### Different API for Neon
* Biquad F32 initialization : An additional function must be used for initialization
* MFCC F32, F16, Q31 and Q15 : Additional temporary buffer required for the functions
* CFFT F32, F16, Q31 and Q15 : Additional temporary buffer required for the functions
* RFFT F32, F16, Q31 and Q15 : Additional temporary buffer required for the functions. Different arguments for the init function of Q31 and Q15 RFFT

For CFFT and RFFT, a new Neon specific initialization function is available to be able to use longer FFTs.

For CFFT, this new Neon specific initialization allows to use FFT lengths with factor of 3 and 5 in the length (but must still be a multiple of 4 length).


## License {#license}

The CMSIS-DSP is provided free of charge under the [Apache 2.0 License](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ARM-software/CMSIS-DSP/main/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Updated documentation related to Q15 and Q7 Neon matmul. There is an accuracy limitation in current version.

Documentation/Doxygen/src/mainpage.md, after:

# Overview {#mainpage}

## Introduction

This user manual describes the CMSIS DSP software library, a suite of common compute processing functions for use on Cortex-M and Cortex-A processor based devices.

The library is divided into a number of functions each covering a specific category:

 - \ref groupMath "Basic math functions"
 - \ref groupFastMath "Fast math functions"
 - \ref groupCmplxMath "Complex math functions"
 - \ref groupFilters "Filtering functions"
 - \ref groupMatrix "Matrix functions"
 - \ref groupTransforms "Transform functions"
 - \ref groupController "Motor control functions"
 - \ref groupStats "Statistical functions"
 - \ref groupSupport "Support functions"
 - \ref groupInterpolation "Interpolation functions"
 - \ref groupSVM "Support Vector Machine functions (SVM)"
 - \ref groupBayes "Bayes classifier functions"
 - \ref groupDistance "Distance functions"
 - \ref groupQuaternionMath "Quaternion functions"
 - \ref groupWindow "Window functions"

The library has generally separate functions for operating on 8-bit integers, 16-bit integers, 32-bit integer and 32-bit floating-point values and 64-bit floating-point values.

The library is providing vectorized versions of most algorithms for Helium and of most f32 algorithms for Neon.

When using a vectorized version, provide a little bit of padding after the end of a buffer (3 words) because the vectorized code may read a little bit after the end of a buffer. You don't have to modify your buffers but just ensure that the end of buffer + padding is not outside of a memory region.

## Related projects

### Python wrapper

A Python wrapper is also available with a Python API as close as possible to the C one. It can be used to start developing and testing an algorithm with NumPy and SciPy before writing the C version. Is is available on [PyPI.org](https://pypi.org/project/cmsisdsp/). It can be installed with: `pip install cmsisdsp`.

### Experimental C++ template extension

This extension is a set of C++ headers. They just need to included to start using the features.

Those headers are not yet part of the pack and you need to get them from the [github repository](https://github.com/ARM-software/CMSIS-DSP/tree/main/dsppp/Include)

More documentation about the @ref dsppp_main "DSP++" extension.

## Using the CMSIS-DSP Library {#using}

The library is released in source form. It is strongly advised to compile the library using `-Ofast` optimization to have the best performances.

Following options should be avoided:

* `-fno-builtin`
* `-ffreestanding` because it enables previous options

The library is doing some type [punning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Type_punning) to process word 32 from memory as a pair of `q15` or a quadruple of `q7`.  Those type manipulations are done through `memcpy` functions. Most compilers should be able to optimize out those function calls when the length to copy is small (4 bytes).

This optimization will **not** occur when `-fno-builtin` is used and it will have a **very bad** impact on the performances.


The library functions are declared in the public file `Include/arm_math.h`. Simply include this file to use the CMSIS-DSP library. If you don't want to include everything, you can also rely on individual header files from the `Include/dsp/` folder and include only those that are needed in the project.

## Examples {#example}

The library ships with a number of examples which demonstrate how to use the library functions. Please refer to \ref groupExamples.

## Toolchain Support {#toolchain}

The library is now tested on Fast Models building with cmake. Core M0, M4, M7, M33, M55 are tested.

## Access to CMSIS-DSP {#pack}

CMSIS-DSP is actively maintained in the [**CMSIS-DSP GitHub repository**](https://github.com/ARM-software/CMSIS-DSP) and is released as a standalone [**CMSIS-DSP pack**](https://www.keil.arm.com/packs/cmsis-dsp-arm/versions/) in the [CMSIS-Pack format](https://open-cmsis-pack.github.io/Open-CMSIS-Pack-Spec/main/html/index.html).

The table below explains the content of **ARM::CMSIS-DSP** pack.

 Directory                             | Description
:--------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------
 📂 ComputeLibrary                     | Small Neon kernels when building on Cortex-A
 📂 Documentation                      | Folder with this CMSIS-DSP documentation
 📂 Example                            | Example projects demonstrating the usage of the library functions
 📂 Include                            | Include files for using and building the lib
 📂 PrivateInclude                     | Private include files for building the lib
 📂 Source                             | Source files
 📄 ARM.CMSIS-DSP.pdsc                 | CMSIS-Pack description file
 📄 LICENSE                            | License Agreement (Apache 2.0)

See [CMSIS Documentation](https://arm-software.github.io/CMSIS_6/) for an overview of CMSIS software components, tools and specifications.


## Preprocessor Macros {#preprocessor}

Each library project has different preprocessor macros.

 - `ARM_MATH_BIG_ENDIAN`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_BIG_ENDIAN to build the library for big endian targets. By default library builds for little endian targets.

 - `ARM_MATH_MATRIX_CHECK`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_MATRIX_CHECK for checking on the input and output sizes of matrices

 - `ARM_MATH_ROUNDING`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_ROUNDING for rounding on support functions

 - `ARM_MATH_LOOPUNROLL`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_LOOPUNROLL to enable manual loop unrolling in DSP functions

 - `ARM_MATH_NEON`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_NEON to enable Neon versions of the DSP functions. It is not enabled by default when Neon is available because performances are dependent on the compiler and target architecture.

 - `ARM_MATH_NEON_EXPERIMENTAL`:
   - Define macro ARM_MATH_NEON_EXPERIMENTAL to enable experimental Neon versions of of some DSP functions. Experimental Neon versions currently do not have better performances than the scalar versions.

 - `ARM_MATH_HELIUM`:
   - It implies the flags ARM_MATH_MVEF and ARM_MATH_MVEI and ARM_MATH_MVE_FLOAT16.

 - `ARM_MATH_HELIUM_EXPERIMENTAL`:
   - Only taken into account when ARM_MATH_MVEF, ARM_MATH_MVEI or ARM_MATH_MVE_FLOAT16 are defined. Enable some vector versions which may have worse performance than scalar depending on the core / compiler configuration.

 - `ARM_MATH_MVEF`:
   - Select Helium versions of the f32 algorithms. It implies ARM_MATH_FLOAT16 and ARM_MATH_MVEI.

 - `ARM_MATH_MVEI`:
   - Select Helium versions of the int and fixed point algorithms.

 - `ARM_MATH_MVE_FLOAT16`:
   - MVE Float16 implementations of some algorithms (Requires MVE extension).

 - `DISABLEFLOAT16`:
   - Disable float16 algorithms when __fp16 is not supported for a specific compiler / core configuration. This is only valid for scalar. When vector architecture is supporting f16 then it can't be disabled.

 - `ARM_MATH_AUTOVECTORIZE`:
   - With Helium or Neon, disable the use of vectorized code with C intrinsics and use pure C instead. The vectorization is then done by the compiler.

 - `ARM_DSP_ATTRIBUTE`: Can be set to define CMSIS-DSP function as weak functions. This can either be set on the command line when building or in a new `arm_dsp_config.h` header (see below)

 - `ARM_DSP_TABLE_ATTRIBUTE`: Can be set to define in which section constant tables must be mapped. This can either be set on the command line when building or in a new `arm_dsp_config.h` header (see below). Another way to set those sections is by modifying the linker scripts since the constant tables are defined only in a restricted set of source files. 

 - `ARM_DSP_CUSTOM_CONFIG` When set, the file `arm_dsp_config.h` is included by the `arm_math_types.h` headers. You can use this file to define any of the above compilation symbols.

## Code size

Previous versions were using lots of compilation flags to control code size. It was enabled with `ARM_DSP_CONFIG_TABLES`. It was getting too complex and has been removed. Now code size optimizations are relying on the linker.

You no more need to use any compilation flags like `ARM_TABLE_TWIDDLECOEF_F32_2048`, `ARM_FFT_ALLOW_TABLES` etc ...

They have been removed.

Constant tables can use a lot of read only memory but the linker can remove the unused functions and constant tables if it can deduce that those tables or functions are not used.

For this you need to use the right initialization functions in the library and the right options for the linker (they are compiler dependent).

For all transforms functions (CFFT, RFFT ...) instead of using a generic initialization function that works for all lengths (like `arm_cfft_init_f32`), use a dedicated initialization function for a specific size (like `arm_cfft_init_1024_f32`).

By using the right initialization function, you're telling the linker what is really used.

If you use a generic function, the linker cannot deduce the used lengths and thus will keep all the constant tables required for each length.

Then you need to use the right options for the compiler so that the unused tables and functions are removed. It is compiler dependent but generally the options are named like `-ffunction-sections`, `-fdata-sections`, `--gc-sections` ...

## Variations between the architectures

Some algorithms may give slightlty different results on different architectures (like M0 or M4/M7 or M55). It is a tradeoff made for speed reasons and to make best use of the different instruction sets.

All algorithms are compared with a double precision reference and the different versions (for different architectures) have the same characteristics when compared to the double precision (SNR bound, max bound for sample error ...) 

As consequence, the small differences that may exists between the different architecture implementations should be too small to have any practical consequences.

Also, when targeting Helium or Neon, some functions have  different APIs.

### Different API for Helium
* Biquad F32 and F16 : A different init function must be used
* FIR F32, F16, Q31, Q15 and Q7 : Coefficient array must be padded with zeros

### Different API for Neon
* Biquad F32 initialization : An additional function must be used for initialization
* MFCC F32, F16, Q31 and Q15 : Additional temporary buffer required for the functions
* CFFT F32, F16, Q31 and Q15 : Additional temporary buffer required for the functions
* RFFT F32, F16, Q31 and Q15 : Additional temporary buffer required for the functions. Different arguments for the init function of Q31 and Q15 RFFT

For CFFT and RFFT, a new Neon specific initialization function is available to be able to use longer FFTs.

For CFFT, this new Neon specific initialization allows to use FFT lengths with factor of 3 and 5 in the length (but must still be a multiple of 4 length).

Note that matrix multiply for Q15 and Q7 is using accumulators on 32 bits (Q15) and 16 bits (Q7) for Neon. Other versions (scalar and Helium) are using 64 bits (Q15) and 32 bits (Q7).

You should not try to multiply too big Q15/Q7 matrixes with Neon because you'll likely get saturation issues.
If you scale down the data to avoid the saturation issues, the loss of accuracy may be too big.

An implementation accumulating on more bits would give better results but would also be slower.


## License {#license}

The CMSIS-DSP is provided free of charge under the [Apache 2.0 License](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ARM-software/CMSIS-DSP/main/LICENSE).
